Supervised Learning Summary
Matthew Hrones
CICS 397A
11/22/2020

####    COMMON BETWEEN SUMMARIES    ###

The data I used for this homework was collected via an MTurk survey that asked
respondents about their non-essential spending habits before and after the
pandemic, along with the types of financial assistance, if any, they received.

The survey asked essentially three questions, structured as follows


Q1: How has your non-essential spending changed since the beginning of the
    pandemic?

    Much lower
    Slightly lower
    About the same
    Slightly higher
    Much Higher


Q2: If your spending has decreased, why do you think that is?
Q3: If your spending has increased, why do you think that is?


Q4: What types, if any, of government/public financial assistance have you
    received?

    This question included answers such as Paycheck Protection Program, Pandemic
    Unemployment Assistance, and University Aid that were categorized as
    "Recurring Payments." The one time $1,200 Stimulus Check was categorized as
    "One Time Payment." Respondents who received both Recurring and One-Time
    payments were categorized as "Combo Payments." And, naturally, those who
    didn't receive any financial assistance are denoted by "No Aid"

####      END COMMON      ####

The predictive task I was approaching was, given a respondent's reported change
in spending and the perceived reason for that change, to predict what type of
government financial assistance they received.

For example, if a respondent reported a decrease in spending, it is less likely
that they received a Recurring or Combo Payment, and more likely that they
received the One-time Payment or No Aid. Within the category of decreased
spending, someone who reported Financial Constraints as the reason were less
likely to have received Recurring or Combo payments that those who reported
Lockdown Orders as the reason.

Unfortunately, the original prediction model was not very accurate. The final
accuracy score was 0.311828. An issue in the dataset that I immediately realized
was that there was no question asking for reasons for those who responded that
they did were spending about the same. For those, I created another column of
data for each respondent and set it to "none.

However, after these poor results I realized I also had demographics data for
the respondents I was analyzing. I then went on to include three other data
points for the model; Age, Income, and Education. I included this data, in
varying combinations and alone, to see if it would help train the model to make
better predictions. And, after re-running the program, it did make the model
more accurate!

The new prediction rate was 0.4086022! Whether you state it as a 25% increase
in accuracy, or a net increase 9.5 percent, adding this additional data helped
the model predict what type(s) of aid they received. The output for this is
included as "demos.txt"
